[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So all the map and filter
and zip and reduce stuff all works over
observables.
>> Jafar Husain: This one's fun.
So we're gonna create
that mouse drag event.
But first, we're gonna start with
an example that you guys already know.
Or a similarly example you guys have
been working with last few days.
Let's take this example and let's slowly
morphed it into a mouse stagnant.
So what do we do?
We've been going through this
the stuff I'm not easy at all.
Yesterday, we went through movie lists,
and then we went through videos.
But we filtered the videos
collection before we returned it.
And then we ended up with
a two-dimensional array.
And then we used contact map
to flatten that by one level.
We just that's what we were
doing again and again yesterday.
So let's see why we've been doing
those wax-on, wax-off exercises.
Now I'm gonna
slowly change
this.
>> Off Camera 1: A console
log in that filter function that
it would do nothing until for
each is called?
>> Jafar Husain: That is absolutely
correct, not a bit of code in here.
Well excuse me, not a bit of code
inside of the handlers, right?
Because handlers are,
like the filter code, right?
This code is only gonna execute
when data makes its way through.
And we're only gonna start getting data.
The way to think about this is, actually
here's a good way of thinking about it.
The event handler has not,
remember when you adapted
the buttons clicks to an observable?
That did not hook up an event handler.
The event handler is not gonna be hooked
up until you actually call forEach.
Because what happens and
what we're gonna later on,
it's gonna be fun we're gonna
actually implement observable.
So you can see all the in ads inside and
how simple amazingly simple
observable really is.
And we're gonna step through the code and
we're gonna watch what happens
when you call forEach.
We're gonna follow it all the way
up to subscribing to the event.
First, I wanna make sure
your proficient in using it.
And then later on, if we have time, we'll
actually just implement a mini-observable
and all those map and filter and
from event and that type of thing.
So you'll actually be able to follow
up follow up the progression, but
that's what happens when you call for
each one of observable.
Lets say I take an observeable and
I mapped it.
Well, when I call for
each on that observable, it calls for
each on its data source.
And that'll call for each on its
data source, and on and on and on.
Up until finally we reach that observable
that adapted from the button clicks, and
then it'll call addEventListener().
Does that makes sense?
So an observable's a little like an event,
but it's also a little like a function.
It's like an event in that
will push your data, but
it's more like a function in that it
won't do a thing until you call it.
Does that make sense?
Until you call that one forEach function.
So we're gonna try and
leverage all the metaphors for
how you're already used to thinking here.
And I'm gonna combine them and
meld them together to get a good
idea of how observable works.
So now we've got,
I was just in the middle of changing this.
So filter takes a collection,
and potentially makes it smaller.
We'll take until does
the exact same thing.
It takes a collection and
then makes it smaller.
Just slightly we just use it by instead
of applying a function to each item,
right to see whether passes a test or not.
Instead it listens to
another observable and
it completes the source observable
when that other observable fires.
And so mouse drag.
All that stuff about processing data.
Remember we talked about why
we use map instead of zip?
Well, I have to process the video
lists before I process the videos.
Well it's order, right?
You can use map to
enforce order of events.
That's what we're doing here.
We're saying, well,
I'm gonna listen to the mouseDowns first.
And then when I get a mouseDown, I'm
gonna go through the mouse moves, right?
Before we had to do that
with an array because well,
you can only get to the videos by
going through the video lists.
But here you can also take two, we noticed
when we did our example where it's
relational where we had ID's where we had
two collections of the same time In order
to create the structure we wanted we just
chose in which order to map through.
What we said, well I wanna create
lists that contain videos.
So I gonna map through
the lists arrays first.
And then within there,
I'm gonna map through the videos array, so
that was the relational example
where we link stats links up by IDs.
So we were creating the structure
we wanted by imposing an order.
Sometimes an order is imposed
on us Like with the the video.
Listen, it contains the videos and
then we have to map a nest through.
But sometimes, we just have access to
two collections at the same time and
the order is really up to us.
If we map through the former before
the lot or we get one structure for
building a tree.
If we swap that around,
we can get the other structure.
That's really more akin to what we deal
with when we deal with observables.
Usually I have access to the mouseMove.
In this case I have access
to the mouseMove event,
I have access to the mouse event,
mouseDown event all at the same time.
In order to get the,
in order to enforce an order, I just
choose in what order I map through them.
But if I map through mouseMoves and
then mouseDowns.
Well, then I wouldn't start listening for
a mouseDown until a mouseMove came along.
Does that make sense or
is that worthy of a little more,
little more hammering home, right?
Because here,
I'm gonna write this the long way first.
Right because remember
that's all that's going on.
Can always switch a concat map to
a map followed by contactAll(), right.
This function right here is only gonna get
called when we get a mouseDown, right?
When a mouseDown arrives in
that collection over time.
And so therefore,
we're not even gonna begin listening to
mouseMoves until a mouseDown comes along.
Because how would we?
This function's not even gonna get called.
It can't get called until
a mouseDown comes along.
So when a mouseDown comes along,
we execute this function.
And we return that new collection and
concatAll and concatAll.
The thing responsible for flattening.
So it sees a two-dimensional observable.
And every single time an inner
observable comes along it's gonna for
each over that right.
And this right here is
the inner observable.
So first, we see the concrete all
subscribe to the outer observable which is
mouse downs, right?
And then a map, and
then every inner observable comes along.
It's just gonna be all the mouse
moves until the mouse up.
So then it subscribes to
the inner observable, and
that's how we enforce order.
I wanna listen to this event happening
before I listen to that event happening.
Does that make sense?
So if you've just got a bunch of events
and you wanna order them, map, right?
If you want to listen to
them up the same time.
What do you think the operator would use?
We're listening to two
events in exactly the same.
Any time you get an item from each side,
you wanna do something.
Let's say you got two network requests and
they're both observables of one and
you wanna wait for them both to
finish before you do something else.
What's the operator I would use?
>> Off Camera 2: Zip
>> Jafar Husain: Zip, now we know why we
learned zip, right?
Zip, the truth is when you're doing
programming most of the times in arrays
items don't happen to
be organized by index.
It's actually very rare.
Usually, they're organized relationally
by they're linked together by some ID or
they're organized hierarchically.
And so I'm the first to tell you
that when it comes to arrays.
Zip isn't that useful [LAUGH].
You're probably not
gonna use it very much.
When it comes to asynchronous programming
that's probably the most common usage.
When you're dealing with concurrent
network requests, right?
It's very often that you
have maybe even two or
three network requests and
they're all gonna give you one result.
Zip is perfect for that, right?
Because you can zip, you just wait for
them all to be done.
And then your function gets
called with the results
of all of the different observables
of one all at the same time.
So you can make a request, concurrent
requests to three different services.
And then take the results and combine
them together into some object that's
a composite of the data from all three.
So that's where as zips gona apply, right?
So we've seen how we can order
events using map, right?
Filters, self-explanatory, the same
thing with arrays and observables.
Sometimes you're only interested
in a certain type of event or
an event that matches a certain condition,
right?
I'm only interested in listening to this
mouse move when it's within the bounding
box of this button right
that's what filters for.
And it corked out all
the same thing really.
You have nested observables and
you wanna flatten them, right?
To make sure.
Because in the end,
what are we gonna do at the very end?
Once we've built the observable,
we want what's missing from this code.
In this code,
we're not gonna hook about event handler.
Not even an event handler's gonna be
hooked up, nothing is gonna happen.
What do I have to do to
actually make this code work?
To actually listen for mouse tracks?
>> Off Camera 3: ForEach.
>> Jafar Husain: ForEach, yes.
All I did here was created observable and
that's just like a function waiting
to be called haven't done a thing.
I just created a function that I can call
later if I want to and how do I call it?
>> Jafar Husain: I'm cheating a little bit
here.
>> Jafar Husain: Let's not cheat.
>> Jafar Husain: I think it's clientX and
clientY.
>> Jafar Husain: Now I'm
actually going to be listening.
It's like I've created this event,
but I'm not listening to it.
But now that I'm listening to it,
I can do something.
Notice the one changing an object
that I didn't create here.
That's what's happening in
do I'm changing the world.
Now I've created a stream of
the events of interesting events.
I'm gonna traverse that collection and
do something with the information
I'm gonna change things.